---
layout: single
classes: wide
title: An Introduction to p5.js
date: 2018-11-13
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
toc_sticky: false
excerpt: "Learn how to make stuff with JS"
header:
  overlay_color: "#000000"
---

You will learn the basics of p5.js: setup, draw, coordinates, and color.

### Coding Environment

To get started with p5.js immediately you can use an online editor such as [OpenProcessing](https://www.openprocessing.org) or the [p5.js web editor](https://editor.p5js.org/).

### Setup and Draw

The function setup will be executed only once, you create the canvas here with createCanvas. The function draw will be executed constantly.

```
function setup() {
  createCanvas(windowWidth, windowHeight)
}

function draw() {
  noStroke(); // no margins
  fill(0); // color of ellipse
  ellipse(mouseX, mouseY, 20, 20);
}
```

The example above will constantly draw a black circle at the coordinates of the mouse.

### Coordinates

The origin (0, 0) is the top left corner of the canvas. Y values increase downwards, so the maximum y value will be at the bottom. X values increase to the right.

### Color

A [color](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/color) can be an rgb, rgba, or hex string or the three values of an rgb color.

```
fill(235, 100, 50);
fill('rgb(235, 100, 50)');
```

Functions that change the color or the margin of a shape include fill, noFill, noStroke, and stroke. Fill changes the color of shapes and stroke changes the color of a shape's margins. These functions must be used before the shape is created. So fill must be used before creating a shape to affect that shape. For example:

```
fill(235, 100, 50);
noStroke();
ellipse(mouseX, mouseY, 20, 20);
```

Once fill or stroke has been used it will continue to affect all following shapes unless a different color is used.

```
fill(235, 100, 50);
ellipse(100, 100, 20, 20);
ellipse(150, 100, 20, 20);

fill(123, 216, 114);
ellipse(100, 200, 20, 20); // Filled with a different color than previous shapes
```

### Conclusion

Now you know the basics of p5.js. I suggest that you go to the [reference docs](https://p5js.org/reference/) and play around with p5.js. You cannot make mistakes with p5.js.
